Sorry, so a would be like a readable or
a transform.
No, a it actually is a duplex.
>> It's gonna be an another duplex stream.
>> Okay.
>> Both of these are duplex
streams actually.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> So a would pipe something into stream,
which is duplex and
then stream, also-
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> So maybe this is a good time for
me to just write out an example of how we
would use a duplex stream to make like
a little echo server,
cuz this is I think a good opportunity.
All right, so
I'll make a file called echo.js.
And I'm gonna push these all in
a moment so that you can play around.
So if we require the net module,
we can do net.createServer.
The net.createServer function by default,
accepts function argument that for
every TCP connection
that's incoming, returns a stream,
and that stream is a duplex stream.
And then you can call .listen
on that server object.
So here we're gonna create
a TCP server on port 5000.
And what we can do is, we can just,
Pipe, Let me think.
So we can pipe, Well, here's another thing
that you can do with the duplex stream
is you can pipe a stream into itself.
Because the readable and writable side,
it's not like a transform stream
where it's doing a transformation.
It's actually decoupled, so
this will not create an infinite loop, it
will actually just create an echo server.
And then maybe we can, I'll create
another stream where we can sort
of do a proxy would be
a good second step for this.
And then it will look more
like a duplex stream.
Okay, so if I run this program and
now if I do netcat to localhost 5000,
I get back the same thing that I put in.
This used to be the de facto
example that Ryan Dahl would do,
or other people would do to
like show node js echo servers.
Cuz echo servers are actually pretty
hard to write in languages that don't
have kind of a runtime that can handle
asynchronous pulling in sockets and
all that kind of stuff easily.
So it's a pretty nice little thing to do.
And the next thing that we could do is,
let's make a little proxy now,
an echo proxy.
So we're gonna keep our echo
server running on port 5000, but
we're gonna run a proxy
server on port 5001.
That's going to forward incoming
connections to our proxy server and
then back out again.
So I'll call this proxy.js.
We can use the net module to
make our TCP connections.
And we're gonna have a server as well.
So we need to create a server.
We get a duplex stream and
our server will listen on port 5001.
But then every time we get a connection,
we need to actually connect to
the other server running on port 5000.
So you can omit the localhost, but
this just makes a bit more explicit.
Now we can pipe the incoming
data into that socket.
And then the outgoing data can go back
into the other end of the duplex stream.
So this is more similar to
the example that I put in
the slides where you
have a.pipeb.pipea again.
So if I run our proxy server now,
whoop, it's not on 5001,
I must be peering something else.
5005, okay, so now if I connect
to local host 5005, say hello.
And it's actually going
to the proxy server and
then the proxy server is going to
the echo server and then back again.
Cool, hopefully this is a more
concrete example of what is
meant by the duplex stream.
I think it mostly takes just playing
around with this kind of stuff and
then you sort of build up an intuition for
how you can use these kinds of
abstractions in your own programs.